Conservation and artistic bookbinding
Some of the books we work with are valuable but heavily damaged.
Sometimes it is only when we disassemble a volume that losses
and mould show up and we can see how far the damage goes.
Professional conservation work can save the book and protect
the rest of the collection from mould outbreaks and insect infestations.
The pictures show book folios before and after conservation work.
We are presenting the effects of a long conservation process:
cleaning, fungus treatment and pulp fills.
Then the text block is sewn and bound.
This leather binding was decorated using original ornaments and types from the 1930s.
As a result the valuable album dedicated to a hero of the Kościuszko uprising was given a new life.
The great secret but also the pain of book conservation experts is to do it in such a way
that the tremendous work becomes as invisible as possible.
The book looks almost like new.